# Job-Satisfaction-on-IBM-Watson-dataset
Statistical data analysis on IBM watson dataset.
Research published in 2017 from the Smarter Workforce Institute at IBM revealed that the number one reason people left their last job was due to a lack of job satisfaction (40%), with only 14% of respondents saying they had left their previous job because of their manager. The inspiration for this project is taken from the fact that top companies value job satisfaction of the employees as it correlates with the productivity of the employees. So, we want to model the IBM data on employees to model their job satisfaction to understand and quantify the effects of the important parameters like years since last promotion, work-life balance, percent salary hike, Years at company, overtime and training numbers on satisfaction. This analysis aims to provide the HR department a realistic model for job satisfaction and valuable recommendations that could improve the job satisfaction of the employees.

Based on the model we want to understand whether increase number of training will improve the job satisfaction of the employee. We also want to suggest the target group for our recommendation from our model. We built an ordinal logistic model to understand the employee satisfaction.

Our analysis suggests that increasing the number of training for employees with less work experience in the company increases their job satisfaction. Other significant findings of the analysis include, percentage salary hike is a stronger metric for improving job satisfaction than the monthly income. The percent salary hike if increased by 1% increases the odds of job satisfaction by 2 percent. Environment Satisfaction was not found very significant parameter for modelling job satisfaction. So the company need not concentrate more on improving on extra facilities to improve environment satisfaction as this doesn’t have a very significant effect on the job satisfaction.
